[Music]
hey hop in I'll fill you in while we're
on the road I'm being pursued and we're
jumping back in time quickly now okay
we're safe now
I'll tell you everything but first I
need you to learn a bit about the
history of automobiles that's important
and you'll soon learn why all right we
start at the very beginning and we drive
really slowly because otherwise you
won't be able to take a good look see
that apple tree over there and the
person beneath it let's not bother him
because it's Sir Isaac Newton yeah the
sir Newton it's the year 1687
when he published his works on the three
laws of motion they were arguably the
impulse engineers needed to start
thinking about automobiles it took
almost another century though before the
magic happened accelerating now and here
we are in 1769 I need to drop the speed
again because we're overtaking the first
actual Road vehicle in history it was a
steam-powered car invented by nicholas
joseph canal it was first intended for
military purposes it had only three
wheels and was more of a tractor than an
actual car the steam engine took a large
portion of his size and weight too for
that matter needless to say it was a
heavy vehicle capable of moving at only
two-and-a-half miles per hour but it was
a breakthrough nonetheless
many other prototypes followed and among
the more successful ones was an electric
carriage made by Robert Anderson in
Scotland what year was that
uh yeah 1839 hold on tight we're
accelerating again here it is a crude
thing but just think about it this
carriage is the first electric car in
history wait is that Elon Musk over
there um no sorry anyway this thing
moves not much faster than its
steam-powered predecessor its speed is
about 4 miles per hour
move along will ya at the same time look
around steam coaches are everywhere
these are their last days though because
in 1840
they'll be banned in the UK they're
simply too heavy to be used on regular
roads I'll jump us to 1845 now hold on
here we are see a railroad is being
built in the distance that's the result
of the steam car ban now the first
proper car was invented in 1886 and
there are two people sharing the honor
let's have a look we're in Germany of
that time see them on the left is a more
traditional four wheeled vehicle made by
Gottlieb Daimler which was not for sale
either on the right is a gas powered
automobile made by Carl Friedrich Benz
it has three wheels and it was never a
serial car both were experiments of
talented engineers and as you'll see in
a moment they were quite successful
we've just jumped to the Year 1891 and
you can see a lot of Kujo cars around us
all of them run on engines patented by
Benz and Daimler who built their initial
capital on selling those but if we just
fast-forward to 1901 we'll see the first
Mercedes cars designed by wilhelm
maybach Daimler's business partner by
the way take a better look around see
there aren't yet too many cars for a
traffic jam but lots of them already
look identical
these are Benz Velo the first
automobiles to be produced in large
numbers and with similar appearance
before them
every car was unique and you can see it
even now now let's take a quick stroke
across the u.s. here in 1893 which is
already before our current time brothers
Charles and Frank Duryea assembled their
first gas powered car and soon became
the largest car manufacturers in the
United States by now that is 1901
they've sold dozens of expensive
limousines which you can hardly see in
the crowd of ruthless carriages all
similar to each other
these are curved - Oldsmobiles the first
mass-produced cars in the USA Ransome
Eli olds invented the assembly line
prototype and moved to Detroit to start
his enterprise his cars will be at the
top of the automotive world for three
more years but we'll skip seven and go
to 1908 because here's where the real
thing begins see that shape in front of
us brings a bell doesn't it that's
because it's a Model T Henry Ford's most
famous mass-produced car the tin Lizzie
thanks to the state of the art assembly
lines it takes only 93 minutes to
assemble one Model T wonder what happens
to it in say 20 years let's see here we
go 1927 and the road is packed with
Lizzie's by now Ford has produced over
15 million of these cars and improved
them with every passing year making them
more efficient and comfortable while
still affordable and black oh look
there's my favorite see that Model T
going down the hill it's actually going
up but in Reverse the fuel is fed to the
engine with the help of gravity and the
reverse gear gives more power while on a
slope okay now I think we're stuck in
this Jam for quite a while how about we
skip a decade or two huh I'll just press
here and
what year is this ah 1937 a decade that
traffic jams are even more of a nuisance
but at least were not in one now oh wow
look at that beauty
it's a Duesenberg model J the most
luxurious and powerful car of the first
half of the century
just imagine its engine produced 265
horsepower and a supercharged version
reached 320 Hey
it's beating away from us let's try and
keep up I wonder who's inside this doozy
because only the wealthiest could afford
one but it seems too fast even for me
haha awesome alright then let's jump
ahead once more and see what awaits us
there it's 1965 and the car industry is
booming what you see on either side of
us are Ford's Chevrolet's Chrysler's and
DeSoto's there's even one Edsel a Ford
derived automobile that only live for
three years and of course plenty of
Mustangs these babies survived
everything don't you know even in our
time they're still popular pony cars
they're called and they gave birth to a
whole slew of similar models by various
manufacturers popping again didn't
expect it that's because we're in the
70s and it's muscle cars galore I won't
tell you the exact year cuz I'm a rebel
but just look around here there's not a
single smooth line in those cars it's
pure testosterone they're mean they're
powerful they're awesome
oh well as much as I want to stay we
have to jump forward it's 1985 and I'll
bet you know what I'm about to show you
we'll stop here and take that car
waiting for us hop off and follow me yes
it's a DeLorean dmc-12
that legendary DeLorean I'm not saying
any more and we're about to make our
next jump in it and then guess what back
to the future
we're now in the 90s and it's the era of
global economic crisis muscle cars are
in the past now and people need simpler
more affordable vehicles that's why what
you see from the window is well far from
perfect
plastic headlights and fenders simplest
forms everything to attract consumers
who haven't got a penny to spare all the
cars outside look pretty much identical
because they basically are that's a bit
sad in the 2000s things grow even worse
just look at these guys it looks like
submarines without a single straight
line it's the time of experiments and
not the best ones but gradually
everything came to the 2010s almost our
time Japan has dominated the field of
car design and everyone else started
copying them sharp angles are the thing
combined with smooth shapes of the body
and here's where I'm finally about to
make the final jump and tell you all
about my pursuers get ready okay
2019 and they're right on my tail but as
promised here's the story look at the
rear seats see the roll of paper that's
a hard copy of blueprints for a car of
the future
see how cars have changed their sleek
aerodynamic and built for comfort this
one however is something else ready or
not we're nearing a portal to the future
brace yourself we're jumping it's the
Year 2070 and cars are well different
get out of the car and see for yourself
beautiful right more than half of them
are flying while others move on magnetic
force aerodynamic shapes are perfect now
and there are no more traffic jams
simply because there are no drivers
every car now adheres to the rules
because humans are not allowed behind
the wheel any longer manual override is
only possible in case of emergency if
you're done watching the city of the
future I'll be happy to lift you back to
our time DeLorean go
hey if you learn something new today
then give the video a like and share it
with a friend and here are some other
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life side of